README.rst, before:

What is Trigger?
================

Trigger is a robust network automation toolkit written in Python that was
designed for interfacing with network devices and managing network
configuration and security policy. It increases the speed and efficiency of
managing large-scale networks while reducing the risk of human error.

Started by the AOL Network Security team in 2006, Trigger was originally
designed for security policy management on firewalls, routers, and switches. It
has since been expanded to be a full-featured network automation toolkit.

With the high number of network devices on the AOL network this application is
invaluable to performance and reliability. We hope you'll find it useful on
your network and consider participating!

Key Features
============

Trigger is designed to work at scale and can support hundreds or thousands of
network devices with ease. Here are some of things that make Trigger tick:

+ Support for SSH, Telnet, and Juniper's Junoscript XML API.
+ Easily get an interactive shell or execute commands asynchronously.
+ Leverage advanced event-driven functionality to manage any number of
  jobs in parallel and handle output or errors as they return.
+ Powerful metadata interface for performing complex queries to group and
  associate network devices by name, manufacturer, type, location, and more.
+ Encrypted storage of login credentials so you can interact without constantly
  being prompted to enter your password.
+ Flexible access-list & firewall policy parser that can test access if access
  is permitted, or easily convert ACLs from one format to another.
+ Detailed support for timezones and maintenance windows.
+ A suite of tools for simplifying many common tasks.

New in version 1.2:

+ Import your metadata from an existing `RANCID
  <http://shrubbery.net/rancid/>`_ installation to get up-and-running quickly!

New in version 1.3:

+ Import your metadata from a CSV file and get up-and-running even quicker!

Getting Started
===============

The best way to get started is to read the documentation hosted by `Read the
Docs <http://readthedocs.org>`_ at `http://trigger.readthedocs.org
<http://trigger.readthedocs.org>`_. There you will find everything you need to
get going including usage examples, installation and configuration
instructions, and more!

Before you begin
----------------

+ The `develop <https://github.com/trigger/trigger/tree/develop>`_ branch is
  the default branch that will be active when you clone this repository. While
  it is generally stable this branch is not considered production-ready. Use at
  your own risk!
+ The `master <https://github.com/trigger/trigger/tree/master>`_ branch is
  the stable branch, and will reflect the latest production-ready changes. It
  is recommended that this is the branch you use if you are installing Trigger
  for the first time.
+ Each point release of Trigger is maintained as a `tag branch
  <https://github.com/trigger/trigger/tags>`_. If you require a
  specific Trigger version, please refer to these.

Get in touch!
-------------

If you run into any snags, have questions, feedback, or just want to talk shop:
`contact us <http://trigger.readthedocs.org/en/latest/#getting-help>`_!

**Pro tip**: Find us on IRC at ``#trigger`` on Freenode
(`irc://irc.freenode.net/trigger <irc://irc.freenode.net/trigger>`_).

Commit message:

Release 1.5.3
New Features
------------

+ Remote execution on Avocent console servers is now officially supported.
+ Example normalizer project added to the `examples` directory at the root of
  the repository.

Enhancements
------------

+ An identity test for `~trigger.netdevices.NetDevice` objects has been added
  that can be used to check whether a devices is a Cisco Nexus. You may utilize
  it by calling `.is_cisco_nexus()` on any `NetDevice` object.
+ Support for parsing interfaces on Cisco Nexus devices has been added.
+ A new global setting now defines what to do when a device object does not
  have a manufacturer defined (See: :setting:`FALLBACK_MANUFACTURER`) which
  defaults to the value `UNKNOWN`.
+ The `~trigger.twister` module is now PEP8-compliant.

Bug Fixes
---------

+ Fixed a bug where devices w/ mixed case names aren't properly detected by
  `~trigger.cmds.Commando` subclasses, since
  `~trigger.netdevices.NetDevices` normalizes the hostname on load.
+ Fixed a bug in `~trigger.changemgmt` so that Trigger can use the
  current version of `pytz`.
+ Fixed a bug where sending an enable password to a device in a low
  latency environment (sub 1 ms) would result in the password being sent before
  the password prompt is displayed by the device.
+ Pin Twisted version so that py2.6 unit tests succeed. (Twisted
  15.5.0 dropped support for Python 2.6)

README.rst, after:

What is Trigger?
================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/trigger/trigger.png
   :alt: Build Status
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/trigger/trigger
   
.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
   :alt: Join the chat at https://gitter.im/trigger/trigger
   :target: https://gitter.im/trigger/trigger?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge

Trigger is a robust network automation toolkit written in Python that was
designed for interfacing with network devices and managing network
configuration and security policy. It increases the speed and efficiency of
managing large-scale networks while reducing the risk of human error.

Started by the AOL Network Security team in 2006, Trigger was originally
designed for security policy management on firewalls, routers, and switches. It
has since been expanded to be a full-featured network automation toolkit.

With the high number of network devices on the AOL network this application is
invaluable to performance and reliability. We hope you'll find it useful on
your network and consider participating!

Supported Platforms
===================

* Cisco IOS, NX-OS, and ASA software
* Juniper Junos and ScreenOS
* Force10 router and switch platforms running FTOS
* Arista Networks 7000-family switches
* ... and more!

Refer to the `official docs`_ for the full list.

.. _official docs: http://trigger.readthedocs.org/en/latest/#supported-platforms

Key Features
============

Trigger is designed to work at scale and can support hundreds or thousands of
network devices with ease. Here are some of things that make Trigger tick:

+ Support for SSH, Telnet, and Juniper's Junoscript XML API.
+ Easily get an interactive shell or execute commands asynchronously.
+ Leverage advanced event-driven functionality to manage any number of
  jobs in parallel and handle output or errors as they return.
+ Powerful metadata interface for performing complex queries to group and
  associate network devices by name, manufacturer, type, location, and more.
+ Encrypted storage of login credentials so you can interact without constantly
  being prompted to enter your password.
+ Flexible access-list & firewall policy parser that can test access if access
  is permitted, or easily convert ACLs from one format to another.
+ Detailed support for timezones and maintenance windows.
+ A suite of tools for simplifying many common tasks.

New in version 1.2:

+ Import your metadata from an existing `RANCID
  <http://shrubbery.net/rancid/>`_ installation to get up-and-running quickly!

New in version 1.3:

+ Import your metadata from a CSV file and get up-and-running even quicker!

Getting Started
===============

The best way to get started is to read the documentation hosted by `Read the
Docs <http://readthedocs.org>`_ at `http://trigger.readthedocs.org
<http://trigger.readthedocs.org>`_. There you will find everything you need to
get going including usage examples, installation and configuration
instructions, and more!

Before you begin
----------------

+ The `develop <https://github.com/trigger/trigger/tree/develop>`_ branch is
  the default branch that will be active when you clone this repository. While
  it is generally stable this branch is not considered production-ready. Use at
  your own risk!
+ The `master <https://github.com/trigger/trigger/tree/master>`_ branch is
  the stable branch, and will reflect the latest production-ready changes. It
  is recommended that this is the branch you use if you are installing Trigger
  for the first time.
+ Each point release of Trigger is maintained as a `tag branch
  <https://github.com/trigger/trigger/tags>`_. If you require a
  specific Trigger version, please refer to these.

Get in touch!
-------------

If you run into any snags, have questions, feedback, or just want to talk shop:
`contact us <http://trigger.readthedocs.org/en/latest/#getting-help>`_!

**Pro tip**: Find us on IRC at ``#trigger`` on Freenode
(`irc://irc.freenode.net/trigger <irc://irc.freenode.net/trigger>`_).
