examples/normalizer/README.md, before:

# Normalizer

This example version of a Normalizer will connect to a defined set of routers. It will validate the configuration (in this case, the presence of ip access-list standard trigger-test-1), and effect a change to the device if required. In the environment where this script is used, working with remote CPEs, a reload is preferred to loss of device connectivity. This probably isn't the case for most environments.

There are a number of todos, the most signficiant is that I would like to return the ordered command output including commands that occur more than once (e.g. write mem).

Here is the result of two executions against a set of three routers, one of which requires normalization and one of which is offline.

```
johnf@triggertest:~/TriggerTest⟫ ./TriggerReactorlessNormalize.py
Ping testing 3 devices (r1 r2 r3)
Failed to ping host r3
Processing responsive 2 devices (r1 r2)
Validating router details
Will normalized trigger-test acl on device r1
Normalizing 1 devices (r1)
Device r1 job state is True
johnf@triggertest:~/TriggerTest⟫ ./TriggerReactorlessNormalize.py
Ping testing 3 devices (r1 r2 r3)
Failed to ping host r3
Processing responsive 2 devices (r1 r2)
Validating router details
No devices need to be normalized
```

Commit message:

Moved ping to seperate file, added csv support

examples/normalizer/README.md, after:

# Normalizer

This example version of a Normalizer will connect to a defined set of routers. It will validate the configuration (in this case, the presence of ip access-list standard trigger-test-1), and effect a change to the device if required. In the environment where this script is used, working with remote CPEs, a reload is preferred to loss of device connectivity. This probably isn't the case for most environments.

There are a number of todos, the most signficiant is that I would like to return the ordered command output including commands that occur more than once (e.g. write mem).

Here is the result of two executions against a set of three routers, one of which requires normalization and one of which is offline. There is a third execution where a specific router is specified on the command line. By default all routers in test-units.csv will be processed.

```
1 johnf@triggertest:~/TriggerTest⟫ ./TriggerReactorlessNormalize.py 
Processing all sites
Ping testing 3 devices (r1 r2 r3)
Failed to ping host r3
Processing responsive 2 devices (r1 r2)
Validating router details
Will normalized trigger-test acl on device r1
Normalizing 1 devices (r1)
Device r1 job state is True
johnf@triggertest:~/TriggerTest⟫ ./TriggerReactorlessNormalize.py 
Processing all sites
Ping testing 3 devices (r1 r2 r3)
Failed to ping host r3
Processing responsive 2 devices (r2 r1)
Validating router details
No devices need to be normalized
johnf@pstanadm1:~/TriggerTest⟫ ./TriggerReactorlessNormalize.py r1
Ping testing 1 devices (r1)
Processing responsive 1 devices (r1)
Validating router details
No devices need to be normalized
```
